Create "Using Blueprints with Lua" Page (#19)
PalworldModding/Docs: docs/lua-modding/blueprints-with-lua.mdx

# Using Blueprints with Lua
When writing a Lua mod, you can call a method inside a ModActor blueprint. This is useful, as your Lua mod can hook into functions that aren't exposed via Blueprints, then you can create most of your mod's functionality within Blueprints. If you haven't yet, follow the steps to make a basic Blueprint mod in the [Creating A Blueprint Mod](creating-blueprint-mods/mod-setup-1.mdx) section, and then come back to this section.

First, we have to let our Lua mod know that the Blueprints mod is active. We'll do this by creating a `Lua_ModInitialized` function in our blueprint like so:

![1](./assets/blueprints-with-lua/1.png)

> This function will return your ModActor as a parameter to your Lua mod. Your Lua mod will then use your ModActor to call the functions inside of it. After making this `Lua_ModInitialized` function, we'll need to set an output parameter which will include our ModActor blueprint. This is what gets sent to our Lua mod so we can cache it and call our other functions found inside the blueprint.

Reviewer: I'd like a few changes to this part. It should be noted that when creating events in blueprints for use with Lua mods, make sure the event name is unique because `RegisterCustomEvent` only allows one hook per event name currently, otherwise the previous hook with the same name gets overwritten and won't get called at all.

This also means that multiple Lua mods can't hook to the same blueprint event in case the blueprint mod in question is a library for example. It might change in the future, but for now this is the implementation.

Author: I'll add a note with what you mentioned, how is this? 
![image](https://github.com/PalworldModding/Docs/assets/5509720/7ffcaee4-ca73-4e69-b283-f4c4fe0df8cf)

Reviewer: Looks good to me, feel free to push the changes.

Author: Done, thank you!

Your function should look like this:

![1](./assets/blueprints-with-lua/2.png)

:::note
If you have multiple ModActor blueprints in the dropdown (which will happen if you've created more than one Blueprints mod), make sure the ModActor Object Reference is targeting your specific mod. You can tell if you're targeting your mod if you only see "ModActor" when hovering over the option, like so:

![3](./assets/blueprints-with-lua/3.png)

> :::

Reviewer: This can be avoided by creating another Actor blueprint within your mod folder and letting it handle all the logic instead. With this, ModActor is only responsible for spawning the 'core' Actor and you'll have easier time since you can just reference that 'core' Actor instead. I'll leave examples below.

ModActor spawning the Actor responsible for any logic:
![image](https://github.com/PalworldModding/Docs/assets/111317036/b91e8b34-a026-4eb6-82d8-78f70135339a)

Actor handling the actual logic:
![image](https://github.com/PalworldModding/Docs/assets/111317036/62211ef6-8091-40a8-811e-e40453f5ed20)

Folder:
![image](https://github.com/PalworldModding/Docs/assets/111317036/1e286751-2571-4f17-9be5-c61240884ac7)

Author: I used your phrasing and images to add a details section similar to some other sections in the documentation. How does this look?
![image](https://github.com/PalworldModding/Docs/assets/5509720/752b9dce-63cf-4c78-8157-9b6567b32f2a)

Reviewer: This is good. Feel free to push the changes.

Author: Done, committed. Thanks!

With that said, create a new input for our function, give the variable a name, and then set the input type to "Pal Otomo Holder Component Base".

![6](./assets/blueprints-with-lua/6.png)

Now when we call `ModActor:PrintPalNameFromHolder(HolderComponent)` from our Lua mod, we can use the Pal Otomo Holder Component and do whatever we want with it within our Blueprints mod. For the sake of this example, we'll get the currently selected pal from the Pal Otomo Holder Component and then print the pal's name to the mod loader.

![7](./assets/blueprints-with-lua/7.png)

As you can see from the image above, we take the `PalOtomoHolderComponentBase` that's passed in, use the `TryGetCurrentSelectPalActor` function to get the currently selected Pal's `CharacterParameterComponent`, then use the `GetNickname` function to get that Pal's nickname. We use the `FormatText` method to create a readable string that takes the Pal's name as an input, then convert the formatted text to a string before printing our new string to the mod loader with `PrintToModLoader`.

> After that's done, you're ready to test your new mod. Assuming your Lua mod is set up correctly in the game's installation folder, follow the steps in the [Exporting The Project](/palworld-modding-kit/congratulations.md) section to export your mod's .pak file, copy the .pak file to the game's pak directory under `Palworld/Pal/Content/Paks`, then start the game.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After that's done, you're ready to test your new mod. Assuming your Lua mod is set up correctly in the game's installation folder, follow the steps in the [Exporting The Project](/palworld-modding-kit/congratulations.md) section to export your mod's .pak file, copy the .pak file into the LogicMods folder located in `Palworld/Pal/Content/Paks`, then start the game.
:::note
If you don't have a LogicMods folder in your Paks folder yet, you can create it yourself.
:::
```
